# Grafana Installation and Configuration
## Overview

This project automates the installation of Grafana on specified servers using Ansible and allows for interactive configuration of server details through a Python script. Grafana is an open-source platform for monitoring and observability, enabling you to query, visualize, alert on, and understand your metrics.
Requirements

    Ansible
    Python 3.x
    Access to the target servers with SSH

## Getting Started
1. Clone the Repository

Clone this repository to your local machine to get started.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/gnubyte/grafana_loki
```

2. Set Up Ansible

Ensure Ansible is installed on your machine. Refer to the Ansible Installation Guide for instructions.
3. Run the Python Script for Configuration

Navigate to the cloned directory and run the Python script to configure your target servers.

```bash
python generate_inventory.py
```

Follow the prompts to enter the IP addresses, usernames, and passwords of your Grafana servers.
4. Execute the Ansible Playbook

Run the Ansible playbook to install Grafana on the configured servers.

```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini grafana_install.yml
```


## Files Description

    grafana_install.yml: Ansible playbook for installing Grafana.
    generate_inventory.py: Python script for interactively generating an Ansible inventory file.
    inventory.ini: An example inventory file generated by the script.

## Security Note

It's crucial to handle server credentials securely. Avoid storing plain text passwords in the inventory.ini file for production environments. Consider using Ansible Vault for encrypting sensitive data.
Customization

You can modify the Ansible playbook to suit your specific Grafana configuration needs, such as setting up data sources, dashboards, or enabling additional security features.
Support

For support, open an issue in the repository, or contact the maintainers at support@openmobo.com 
